Firefox Input
=============

Firefox Input is a [Django][Django]-based web application to gather user
feedback from the [Mozilla][Mozilla] Firefox beta testing program.

For project goals, specifications, etc., check out the
[Reporter Wiki Page][wikimo].

[Mozilla]: http://www.mozilla.org
[Django]: http://www.djangoproject.com/
[wikimo]: https://wiki.mozilla.org/Firefox/Input

Getting Started
---------------
### Python
You need Python 2.6. Also, you probably want to run this application in a
[virtualenv][virtualenv] environment.

Run

    easy_install pip

followed by

    pip install -r requirements/prod.txt -r requirements/compiled.txt

to install the required Python libraries.

[virtualenv]: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv

### Sphinx

For searching, we use [Sphinx][sphinx]. Set up an instance of it, and adjust
the SPHINX\_\* settings in settings.py to match your setup. There are three
management commands to go with it:

* ``start_sphinx`` starts the sphinx daemon
* ``stop_sphinx`` stops it
* ``update_index`` updates the search index (see below)

[sphinx]: http://www.sphinxsearch.com/

### Django
Put your database settings in `settings_local.py`:

        from settings import *

        # ...

        DATABASES = {
            'default': {
                'ENGINE': 'mysql',
                'NAME': 'firefox_input',
                'USER': 'root',
                'PASSWORD': '',
                'HOST': 'localhost',
                'PORT': '',
                'OPTIONS': {'init_command': 'SET storage_engine=InnoDB',
                            'charset' : 'utf8',
                            'use_unicode' : True,
                           },
            },
            'website_issues': {
                'ENGINE': 'mysql',
                # ...
            }
        }

To initialize the database, run:

    ./manage.py syncdb

To initialize the search index, run:

    ./manage.py update_index

The Internet has plenty of of documentation on setting up a Django application
with any web server. If you need a wsgi entry point, you can find one in
``wsgi/reporter.wsgi``.

### Sites data
The "website\_issues" database has to be a separate SQL-database from
"default", as it uses its own schematic migration version.
It is used to load aggregate website issues (generated by clustering) from a
cron task. To initialize it, run:

    ./manage.py syncdb --database=website_issues

To generate site data yourself without getting it pushed from metrics, run

    ./manage.py generate_sites

### Cron jobs
There are two jobs you may want to run periodically:

    ./manage.py update_product_details  # Mozilla Product Details update
    ./manage.py update_index -r         # update and rotate search index

The frequency is up to you, but you probably want to run the search index
updates relatively frequently, while the product details can wait a little
longer.

Note that updating the product details files like this will lead to "local
changes" in your checkout. If you plan on pulling code updates from git
periodically, you should leave ``lib/product_details_json`` untouched, but
create a new directory somewhere else and change the setting
``PROD_DETAILS_DIR`` accordingly.

### Mobile vs. Desktop site
We are using the [Django Sites Framework][sites] to distinguish between the
mobile site and the desktop site. The default is site ID 1 == desktop. If
you create another site using the admin interface, requests for that site's
domain will show the mobile site (set ``settings.MOBILE_SITE_ID`` accordingly,
though the default of 2 is probably correct).

For development, you can create an alias of localhost (``m.localhost``, for
example) in ``/etc/hosts``, and use that as the domain for the second site.
Make sure to include the port (``m.localhost:8000``).

[sites]: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/sites/


License
-------
This software is licensed under the [Mozilla Tri-License][MPL]:

    ***** BEGIN LICENSE BLOCK *****
    Version: MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1

    The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version
    1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
    the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
    http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/

    Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
    WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
    for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the
    License.

    The Original Code is Firefox Input.

    The Initial Developer of the Original Code is Mozilla.
    Portions created by the Initial Developer are Copyright (C) 2010
    the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved.

    Contributor(s):
      Frederic Wenzel <fwenzel@mozilla.com>

    Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of
    either the GNU General Public License Version 2 or later (the "GPL"), or
    the GNU Lesser General Public License Version 2.1 or later (the "LGPL"),
    in which case the provisions of the GPL or the LGPL are applicable instead
    of those above. If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
    under the terms of either the GPL or the LGPL, and not to allow others to
    use your version of this file under the terms of the MPL, indicate your
    decision by deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice
    and other provisions required by the GPL or the LGPL. If you do not delete
    the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file under
    the terms of any one of the MPL, the GPL or the LGPL.

    ***** END LICENSE BLOCK *****

[MPL]: http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
